# Usage of Visual Studio Code

Visual Studio Code (VS Code) is a popular, lightweight, and powerful source code editor developed by Microsoft. It's widely used for programming across various languages and platforms.

The guidance below are generated by ChatGPT:

1.  **User Interface Overview**:
    
    - **Activity Bar**: Located on the far left side, it allows you to switch between views like Explorer, Search, Source Control, and Extensions.
    - **Sidebar**: Displays different panels like file explorer, search results, source control, and more, based on what's selected in the Activity Bar.
    - **Editor Window**: The central area where you write and edit your code.
    - **Status Bar**: Located at the bottom, it shows information about the opened project and files.
2.  **Opening a Project**:
    
    - You can open a project by going to `File` \> `Open Folder` and selecting your project directory.
    - Files and folders in the project will be displayed in the Explorer panel.
3.  **Editing Code**:
    
    - Click on a file in the Explorer to open it in the editor.
        
    - VS Code supports syntax highlighting, intelligent code completion (IntelliSense), snippets, and refactoring.
        
    - Save your modification after you finish it
        
4.  **Keyboard Shortcuts**:
    
    - Learn useful shortcuts to enhance productivity. Access them via `Help` \> `Keyboard Shortcut Reference`.
5.  **Integrated Terminal**:
    
    - Access the integrated terminal via `View` \> `Terminal`. It's useful for running shell commands, Git commands, scripts, and more directly within VS Code.

# Shell command

A shell is a special user program that provides an interface to the user to use operating system services. Shell accepts human-readable commands from the user and converts them into something which the kernel can understand. It is a command language interpreter that executes commands read from input devices such as keyboards or from files.

## File path

### Basics

- File paths identify a single **file** or **directory** on your machine
- They are used to choose the program to run (word 0 of the command line)
- Many commands take files as arguments using this syntax
- There are two kinds of paths: **relative** and **absolute**
- Relative paths can start with a name (`foo.txt` or `data/foo.txt`(mac/linux) or `data\foo.txt`(windows)).
- There are two special names to start relative paths:
    - `./foo.txt or ./dir/foo.txt` or `.\foo.txt`: `.` means “the current directory”
    - `../foo.txt` or `../../dir/foo.txt or ..\foo.txt`: `..` means “the parent directory”
- Absolute paths start with a `/` (Mac/Linux) or a drive like `C:\` (Windows)
    - `/Users/yourname/Documents/foo.txt` (Mac/Linux)
    - `C:\Users\yourname\Documents\foo.txt` (Windows)

### Current directory

- Your command shell (like all programs) has a “current directory” variable
- Relative paths are interpreted starting at the current directory
- The current directory is typically shown in your shell prompt
    - `/Users/yourname/Documents $` or `C:\Users\yourname\Documents >`
    - You may also print it using `pwd` command
- Change the current directory with the `cd` (Mac/Linux/Windows)
    - `cd pic20a` or `cd /Users/yourname/pic20a/homework1/` or `cd ..`

## Other useful commands

- Show your current directory: `pwd`
- Show contents of current directory: `ls`
- Make a new directory: `mkdir dirname`
- Rename a file or directory: `mv oldname newname`
- Delete a file: `rm filename`
- Delete an empty directory: `rmdir dirname`

Check out more shell commands:

- Linux/mac: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/basic-shell-commands-in-linux/
- Windows: https://www.stationx.net/windows-command-line-cheat-sheet/

You don't have to remember all these shell commands, but it's good to keep those frequently used commands in your mind.

## Java Program Compilation and Running

Assume your program file name is `Example.java` and it includes an `Example` class

1.  Before compiling and running your Java program, make sure your current directory is correct (your program should be under your current directory)
2.  To compile your program, run: `javac Example.java`
3.  To execute the compiled program, run: `java Example`

You may also use visual studio code to directly run your code, but it may skip some compilation errors, which is typically not we want. 

# C++ review

## Reference Parameters

Reference parameters allow a function to modify the value of a variable that was passed to it as an argument. When a variable is passed by reference (usually marked as **&**), the function can modify **the original value** of the variable, rather than creating a copy of it. This can be useful in cases where you want to avoid copying large objects or when you need to modify the value of a variable within a function.

Here's an example of a function that takes a reference parameter:

```
#include <iostream>

void increment_copy(int x) {
    x++;
    std::cout << x << std::endl;
}

void increment_ref(int& x) {
    x++;
    std::cout << x << std::endl;
}

int main() {
    int a = 10;
    increment_copy(a);
    std::cout << a << std::endl;
    increment_ref(a);
    std::cout << a << std::endl;
    return 0;
}
```

What's the output of this program?

In this example, the increment\_copy functions takes a copy of integer parameter as input while the increment\_ref function takes an integer reference parameter. When a is passed to the increment_ref function, the function modifies the original value of a by incrementing it.

## Classes

Classes are user-defined data types that encapsulate data and functions. They are used to model real-world objects and provide a way to group related data and functions together. Classes can have **member variables** (also called data members) and **member functions** (also called methods). They can also have constructors and destructors, which are special member functions that are called when an object is created or destroyed.

Here's an example of a simple class in C++:

```
#include <iostream>

class Rectangle {
private:
    int width;
    int height;
public:
    Rectangle(int w, int h) {
        width = w;
        height = h;
        std::cout << "Constructor function is called!" << std::endl;
    }
    ~Rectangle(){
    	std::cout << "Destructor functions is called!" << std::endl;
    }
    int area() {
        return width * height;
    }
};

int main() {
    Rectangle rect(5, 10);
    std::cout << rect.area() << std::endl; // Output: 50
    return 0;
}
```

In this example, a Rectangle class is defined with private member variables width and height, and a public member function area that calculates the area of the rectangle. A constructor is also defined to initialize the width and height of the rectangle when an object is created. In main, an object rect of type Rectangle is created with width 5 and height 10, and its area is printed to the console using the area method.